[MUSIC]
Hi, throughout the course, we use
the Springleaf competition as a useful
example of EDA, mean encodings and
features based on nearest neighbors.
Back then, we took the third place in
this competition together with and.
And now in this video, I will describe
the last part of our solution,
which is the usage of stacking and
ensembles.
On this picture, you can see the final
stacking scheme we produced on the level
0 features, on the first level,
predictions by basic models.
On the level one plus combination.
So these predictions and
some accurately chosen features
on the second level models
on this new set of features.
And finally, on the third level,
their linear combination.
In this video,
we will go through each level as it builds
up to this non-trivial ensembled scheme.
But first, let's quickly remind
ourselves about the problem.
This was a binary classification
task with area under curve metric.
We had 145,000 samples in training data
and about 2,000 anonymized features.
These were useful insights
derived by us while doing EDA.
And you can check out EDA done by earlier
in our course to refresh your memory.
So now let's start with features.
Here we have four packs of features.
First two are the basic dataset and
the processed dataset.
To keep it simple,
we just used insights derived from
EDA to clean data [INAUDIBLE] and
to generate new features.
For example,
we remove duplicated features and
edit some feature interaction based
on scatter plots and correlations.
Then, we mean-encoded all categorical
features using growth relation loop and
sign data and smoothing.
We further used the mean-encoded dataset
to calculate features based on nearest
neighbors.
Like, what is the least in
closest object of the class zero?
And how many objects out of ten
nearest neighbors belong to class one?
You can review how this could be done in
related topics introduced
by Dmitri Altihof.
So finally, these four packs of
feature were level 0 of our solution.
And the second level was represented
by several different gradient within
decision tree models,
and one neural network.
The main idea here is that meta
features should be diverse.
Each meta feature should bring
new information about the target.
So we use both distinct parameters and
different sets of features for our models.
For the neural network, we additionally
pre-processed features with
common scalars, ranks and
power transformation.
The problem there was in huge outliers
which skew network training results.
So ranks and power transformation
helped to handle this problem.
After producing meta features who is
gradual in boosting decision to it and
neural networks,
we calculated pay rise differences
on them to help next level models.
Note that this is also an interesting
trick to force the model
to utilize the differences in
the first level models predictions.
Here we edit two datasets of
features based on nearest neighbors.
One was taken directly from level 0 and
they contain the same features.
But it was calculated on the mean-encoded
dataset to the power of one-half.
The point here was that these features
were not completely utilized by
the first level models.
And indeed, they brought new pieces
of information to this level.
Now we already have autofold
predictions from the first level and
we will train with the models on them.
Because we could have target leakage
here because of other folk, and
also because features not very good and
there are almost no patterns left
in the data for models to discover.
We chose simple classifiers, keeping in
mind that predictions should be diverse.
We used four different models.
Gradient boosted decision tree,
neural networks,
random forest and logistic regression.
So this is all with
the second level models.
And finally, we took a linear in your
combination of the second level models.
Because a linear model is not inclined
to that we estimated coefficients
directly using these four predictions and
our target for throwing in data.
So, this is it.
We just went through each level of this
stacking scheme and then the student.
Why we need this kind of complexity?
Well, usually it's because different
models utilize different patterns
in the data and we want to unite all
of this patterns in one mighty model.
And stacking can do exactly that for us.
This may seem too complicated.
Of course, it takes time to move up to
this kind of scheme in a competition.
But be sure that after
completion our course,
you already have enough
knowledge about how to do this.
These schemes never appear in the final
shape at the beginning of the competition.
Most work here usually is
done on the first level.
So you try to create diverse meta features
and unite them in one simple model.
Usually, you start to create the high
grade second level of stacking,
when you have only a few days left.
And after that, you mostly work on
the improvement of this scheme.
That said, you already have
the required knowledge and
now you just need to get
some practice out there.
Be diligent, and without a doubt,
you will succeed.
[SOUND]
[MUSIC]